
DovahKit's  script engine relies on  cross-thread tasks in order to  coordinate 
a variety of editing operations between the client and worker threads. However, 
care must be taken to avoid some nasty  edge-cases that can arise when the user 
force-kills the script -- that is, when the user calls an abort.

Ordinarily, the script  thread will send a task to the  client thread and then, 
if the task is a "blocking" task, the script thread will spin until the task is 
marked as "seen." However, if an abort is called, there's no guarantee that the 
task will ever be seen; there also isn't  a guarantee that it'll never be seen. 
Therefore, the "send task" functions must stop spinning upon noticing an abort. 

However,  there's a wrinkle here: when working with blocking tasks,  the sender 
is responsible for deleting  the task after it has been  processed. This allows 
the sender to  potentially retrieve information from fields on  the task object 
before disposing of  the task. However,  non-blocking  tasks are deleted by the 
task queue, because there's no guarantee  that they'll complete in time for the 
sender to be able to retrieve information from  them. This means that tasks can 
be deleted either by the sender API or  by the coordinator subsystem, and so we 
are exposed to some nasty edge-cases when an abort is called.

In order to avoid a variety of possible failure scenarios, we therefore need to 
take the following steps:

 - The main thread must  refuse to process any more tasks  if an abort has been 
   called.

 - If an abort is called while the "send task" functions are spinning, then the 
   functions must clear the task queue and then stop spinning.

    - If the main thread is currently processing the task queue, then we'll hit 
      the lock,  wait for the processing to finish, and then empty  the already 
      empty queue. Harmless.

    - If the main thread isn't yet processing  the task queue, then this is the 
      only way to ensure that blocking tasks don't linger in the queue.

If we don't honor the above constraints,  then we're exposed to these potential 
failure cases:

 - If the main thread  attempts to execute tasks after an abort,  then it risks 
   accessing an already-deleted blocking  task, triggering an access violation. 
   The same risk is  present if the main thread tries to clear  the task queues 
   on its own following an abort, as a task's data must be accessed in order to 
   know whether it is a blocking task.

 - If the task queues  are not cleared, then the script  thread can deadlock if 
   it reaches the point in its loop where  it waits for the queues to empty. If 
   the main thread refuses to run tasks after  an abort is called, then none of 
   the queues will ever be emptied from that point onward.
