
DovahKit allows scripts to create and manage  a variety of native objects, such 
as user interface  widgets, layer data in a "canvas" widget,  and items in a Qt 
model. However, we don't want scripts to  have to manually manage memory or the 
lifetimes of native objects; we should  do it automatically. When, then, should 
we delete a native object?

Let's invert the question: when *shouldn't* we delete a native object?

The most obvious case is when a native object  is directly referred to by a Lua 
variable. If a variable (or table member, etc.) refers to a native object, then 
the object is clearly still in use somehow, and so should be retained.

Similarly, if one native object is in any  way reachable from some other native 
object that  the script currently  has a variable  pointed at, then  the former 
object should not be deleted.

There is one additional case we need to consider: many cross-thread script APIs 
are non-blocking:  a script can ask for  some change to be  made to the UI, and 
then continue executing without waiting for  the change to complete. The script 
will only  have to wait on these pending  changes if one of them is a  blocking 
task for some reason, or if the script attempts to read data from the UI. These 
changes could  potentially impact whether  one native object is  reachable from 
other native objects. This means that native  objects cannot be deleted if they 
are the targets of any pending cross-thread tasks; and moreover, when the tasks 
are completed,  the native objects that they targeted must be  re-tested to see 
if they now need deletion.

Finally,  user interface  widgets should not be deleted  if they belong  to any 
currently visible window, nor should th e window itself, even if the window and 
its contents are no longer reachable within Lua.

We can capture the above cases with a few terms.


   Lua-referenced

      Some variable or value within Lua refers to the native object by way of a 
      Lua userdata. Refer to <userdata wrappers.txt>  to see how we detect when 
      a native object is no longer Lua-referenced.


   Task-referenced

      A pending cross-thread task, sent by  the script thread and to the client 
      thread, refers to the native object in some way.


   Native-referenced

      The native object is reachable from  another native object that is itself 
      referenced and so should not be deleted.

      
If a native object is referenced in any of the above three ways, then it should 
not be deleted. If a native object becomes unreferenced in any one way, then we 
need to check whether it is also unreferenced in the other two ways, and if so, 
we then need to delete it.


=== Widget hierarchies ========================================================

Qt organizes UI widgets (and all other QObjects)  into hierarchies, with parent 
objects owning and  managing the lifetimes of child objects.  Commonly, a child 
widget will display as part of its parent widget, and be affected by the enable 
state of that widget as well, and so the user  interface as a whole can be said 
to be hierarchical. These hierarchies influence how we manage the lifetimes for 
UI widgets: they must be considered when evaluating whether a hierarchy item is 
native-referenced.

Hierarchies can  in some cases be "bridged" by certain objects.  For example, a 
QButtonGroup can keep  track of  QAbstractButtons  that may  belong to separate 
hierarchies.  When two or more hierarchies are bridged, they should  be treated 
as a single unit: if any widget in any of the bridged hierarchies is referenced 
within Lua or a cross-thread task, then all of the hierarchies count as native-
referenced.

As such, the full rules for when a hierarchy root can be deleted are:

   1. Neither this  root nor the roots of  any bridged hierarchies  are visible 
      QDialogs.

   2. No object  in any of the bridged  hierarchies is Lua-referenced  or task-
      referenced.

   3. No object in any of the bridged hierarchies  is native-referenced outside 
      of the hierarchy  system. Examples of other native  references would be a 
      Lua-referenced model  item belonging to a model owned by  a given widget, 
      such that the model item keeps the widget, its hierarchy, and any bridged 
      hierarchies alive.

This leads to an interesting question: how do we actually check these criteria?

We can only  safely traverse widget  hierarchies, and we can only  safely check 
for most  kinds of native references, from  the client thread. However,  we can 
only safely check whether  something is Lua-referenced  from the script thread. 
How, then, do we perform lifetime checks? Simple: the client thread must become 
the script thread.

Recall from  <abstract.txt> that the  script engine relies on two  threads, the 
client thread and  the worker thread; recall  also that the  "script thread" is 
whichever  of the two is currently in  charge of the Lua state.  Typically, the 
worker thread  will be the  script thread; after all,  the point of  this whole 
system is to run Lua on a worker thread so that a script error or infinite loop 
can't bring down the entire program. However,  if the worker thread initiates a 
lifetime check, it can do so with the  cooperation of the client thread: it can 
send a message  to the client thread and  block until it receives  a reply, and 
that will leave the client thread free to take control of the Lua state.

We have to check whether an object is referenced in any way whenenver it ceases 
to be referenced  in any other way. These three events require  us to perform a 
"lifetime check" on the affected object(s):

 - When a native object ceases to be Lua-referenced, we will detect this on the 
   script thread, which will typically be the worker thread.

 - When a native  object ceases to be  task-referenced, we will  detect this on 
   the client thread, possibly while the script thread is busy running Lua code 
   or a C++ API function provided to Lua.

 - When a native object  ceases to be native-referenced (i.e.  when a UI widget 
   is "orphaned"), we will detect this on the client thread.

Lifetime checks must be performed with the cooperation of both threads. As such 
our chosen design is to have the worker  thread block while lifetime checks are 
performed  on the client  thread. This means that each  thread must  notify the 
other whenever  it needs to perform a lifetime check, and the other  must react 
appropriately.

As such,  we need two queues:  a worker-to-client  lifetime check queue,  and a 
client-to-worker lifetime check queue. Each  queue must be managed a little bit 
differently.


   The worker-to-client queue

      When the worker thread wishes to request a lifetime check, it must create 
      a task, add  that task to the queue,  and then block until  the task gets 
      marked as "seen."

      The  client thread must check this queue and process its contents  during 
      the client thread idle loop.


   The client-to-worker queue

      This queue  must have an atomic  "communication status" enum  value, with 
      the following states:

       - Nothing to report
       - Client is waiting
       - Worker is waiting

      The worker thread's  Lua debug hook must check the enum  value. When that 
      value has been changed to "Client is waiting," the worker thread must set 
      the value  to "Worker is waiting," and  then block until it  detects that 
      the value has been changed back to "Nothing to report."
      
      When the  client  thread wishes to  perform a lifetime  check of  its own 
      volition rather than at the behest of the worker thread, it must create a 
      task and place that task in the queue. It must then set the communciation 
      status to "Client is waiting" and then  continue onward, running its idle 
      loop.

      The client thread's idle loop must check whether the communication status 
      is "Worker is waiting." If so, the client thread must immediately process 
      all tasks in the queue, and then change  the communication status back to 
      "Nothing to report."
