
DovahKit's script engine, internally called  "Dovahscript," is divided into six 
different  subsystems. Each subsystem is  responsible for different  aspects of 
the engine's functioning.

The COORDINATOR  subsystem handles all  high-level coordination,  including the 
threading model and communication with the "outside world." It stores all cross-
thread tasks and executes them as appropriate. It also handles interaction with 
the UI, including parenting script windows  to the appropriate hardcoded window 
from outside  of the script engine, and performing some setup on  newly-created 
scripted widgets to allow for common behaviors (e.g. canvas widget context menu 
behavior, and QLabel hyperlink behavior).

The LIFETIME subsystem  is responsible for keeping track  of all native objects 
whose lifetimes are dependent on the script  and thus need to be managed by the 
script engine.  The subsystem doesn't need  to track each object  individually; 
when  dealing with hierarchies of UI  widgets, only hierarchy roots need  to be 
tracked, as deleting them will recursively  delete their descendants due to how 
widgets manage lifetime in Qt.

The USERDATA subsystem  is responsible for managing userdata  wrappers; you can 
read up on its purpose  in detail in <userdata wrappers.txt>.  As a side effect 
of this duty,  the userdata subsystem is capable  of detecting whenever  native 
objects become unreferenced within Lua,  and it notifies the lifetime subsystem 
accordingly.

The EVENTS subsystem is responsible for managing scripted event listeners on UI 
widgets and associated objects; for catching  listened-for events within Qt and 
saving them for later dispatch to the  script; and for actually dispatching the 
saved events.

The PERMISSIONS subsystem is responsible for managing permission limitations on 
scripts. The goal is to allow both users and script authors detailed control of 
what scripts are allowed to do, and to use  a script's requested permissions to 
extrapolate information about its functioning. For example, if a script doesn't 
need permission to modify forms or other  game data, then we don't need to warn 
the user about data loss or damage when they ask to forcibly halt the script.

The RESOURCES subsystem is responsible  for managing larger resources loaded or 
created by a script, such as game texture files or script-created rasters. This 
subsystem must not only store and track these resources, but also allow scripts 
to safely modify them: writeable resources are effectively double-buffered with 
one buffer on the script thread and another on the client thread, and it's this 
subsystem which manages that process.
