
DovahKit's scripting API allows Lua scripts to create UI windows and manipulate 
them, in order to  display information  and ask for input.  Naturally, however, 
this means that the script  engine needs to manage  the lifetimes of spawned UI 
widgets and objects. How is this done?

Before we begin, we need to define some terms.

QObjects, including  but not limited to widgets, form a  hierarchy, wherein one 
QObject can have a single "parent"  QObject and multiple "child" QObjects. Note 
that I am  here referring to  QObjects, not only  QWidgets; a QWidget  can have 
children that are not, themselves, widgets.  A collection of QWidgets linked to 
each other by parent/child relationships  shall be called a "widget hierarchy," 
with the "topmost" QWidget -- the  furthest ancestor -- being the "root" of the 
hierarchy.

We shall say that two  widget hierarchies are "linked" if  there is some object 
that is  referred to by at least one  widget in each hierarchy. For  example, a 
QButtonGroup instance can be used to make a collection of QRadioButtons operate 
in tandem with one another regardless of their physical location, and so if two 
QRadioButtons in different widget hierarchies share the same QButtonGroup, then 
those widget hierarchies are "linked."

We shall say that a QWidget, QButtonGroup, or similar entity is "referenced" if 
there exists  any Lua variable that  refers to the entity.  Occasionally we may 
also use the synonym "Lua-referenced," and  the antonyms "Lua-unreferenced" and 
"unreferenced."

We shall say  that a QWidget  is "orphaned" if it is  not a QDialog  and has no 
parent. QWidgets are  orphaned by default and cease to be  orphaned if they are 
inserted  into a parent; they  become orphaned  again if they are  removed from 
that parent without being inserted into a different parent.

Finally, we shall say that a widget hierarchy and all of its contained widgets, 
QButtonGroups, and  similar entities are "abandoned" if none  of the widgets in 
that hierarchy  or any linked  hierarchy are referenced,  and if  none of those 
hierarchies have as their root a visible  QDialog. If any single widget, button 
group, or similar entity within a hierarchy  is referenced, then that hierarchy 
and all linked hierarchies are not "abandoned."

Next, let's establish some facts that are useful to know.

 - When a QObject is deleted, it will  trigger the recursive deletion of all of 
   its descendant QObjects. This happens immediately and automatically and is a 
   behavior built into the Qt library.

 - QObjects can be deleted from any thread  by calling QObject::deleteLater. We 
   could, in theory,  delete QWidgets instantly  upon some  criteria being met, 
   but it would be better to  instead mark them for  deletion and then call the 
   QObject::deleteLater  function  within our script  loop  -- outside of event 
   listener processing and similar -- so that  we can safely perform tasks like 
   deleting any pending UI events for the to-be-deleted widget.

 - No matter how we  decide to handle object  lifetimes, we need  to explicitly 
   delete all such objects  when the  script VM is torn down.  Scripts can halt 
   due to an error or if force-killed by the user, and in both cases that means 
   that we need to manually  delete objects. This implies  a need to keep track 
   of all QDialogs and all orphaned widgets  and, in turn, a need to keep track 
   of when widgets become orphaned or, in keeping with the metaphor, "adopted."

 - Widgets that have been marked for deletion should be kept in a separate list 
   from orphaned widgets that have not been marked for deletion.

 - If we assume a lockstep  threading model, wherein every  action requested by 
   Lua blocks the script thread until  completed, then by definition, it is not 
   possible for any abandoned widget or  object to become Lua-referenced again; 
   these are objects that have been "lost" by the script. This is not, however, 
   the threading model we actually use, but we'll get to that in a bit.

Accordingly, we need to decide how exactly we want object lifetimes to work. We 
could require scripts to manage lifetimes  by hand via explicit "delete" calls, 
with us collecting  any objects left behind at the end of  the script, but this 
would be unwieldy for script  authors; it would also  be contrary to how normal 
Lua data works, where unused data is  garbage collected rather than effectively 
becoming a memory leak until the VM tears  down. No, we need a better solution.

The naive approach -- certainly a good starting point -- would be to design the 
VM to delete a "root" widget the very instant its hierarchy is abandoned. We're 
capable of reacting to our userdata being  garbage-collected via the __gc meta-
methods, so we can react to abandonment instantly. Now, this is a good solution 
in theory, but remember  what I said above:  our script engine  runs across two 
threads, and it does not use a lockstep threading model. In order to understand 
what that means, we need to look at an example.

   local child = ui.button.new()
   do
      local parent = ui.widget.new()
      parent:add_child(child)
   end
   collectgarbage("collect")
   collectgarbage("collect") -- has to be twice
   
In the example above,  we create a parent widget and a child  widget, and we do 
so in such a way that the parent  widget will  go out of scope before the child 
widget does. We then call Lua's built-in "collectgarbage" function to force the 
Lua VM to perform a garbage collection pass; we need two calls in order to deal 
with object  finalization (i.e. the  first call will run widget  wrappers' __gc 
metamethods and then mark the wrappers as  "finalized;" the second call is what 
actually deletes them).

You probably expect  these operations to occur one after another,  in sequence, 
but in  reality, many UI  operations are fire-and-forget  and do not  block the 
script thread, and  (widget:add_child) is one of them. What  this means for the 
example above is that events typically occur in the following order:

 - The child widget is created.

 - The parent widget is created.

 - The script thread asks  the main thread to insert the  child widget into the 
   parent widget. This will occur later, but it will not occur instantaneously.

 - The script thread  forces a garbage  collection pass.  This triggers garbage 
   collection of the userdata wrapper for the parent widget.

 - When the parent widget is garbage-collected,  we check whether it belongs to 
   an abandoned hierarchy. Of course, the parent widget is unreferenced and the 
   child widget hasn't  actually been  appended yet --  that operation is still 
   pending -- so technically, the parent  widget is a hierarchy unto itself and 
   that hierarchy contains  no referenced widgets. The  parent widget, then, is 
   abandoned, and will be marked for deletion  -- that is, it will be placed in 
   a QVector so that we can  call QObject::deleteLater on it  at an appropriate 
   time.

 - The main thread will  receive the request to append the  child widget to the 
   marked-for-deletion parent widget. Now we're headed for disaster.

 - The script thread will reach an appropriate point in its spin-loop and pause 
   to scan over all  marked-for-deletion widgets. Any pending  events for these 
   widgets will be deleted without being forwarded to Lua, and then the widgets 
   themselves will be deleted via a call to QObject::deleteLater.

   Because the parent widget was marked for deletion, it will undergo this same 
   process; and because the child widget has now been appended to it, the child 
   widget will be deleted as an indirect consequence.

What we're left with, after this situation  plays out, is a dangling pointer to 
the now-deleted child widget. If the Lua script performs any operation upon the 
"child" variable  that would result  in actually  trying to access  the wrapped 
QWidget, then the script will read bad  memory and (hopefully) crash. Obviously 
we want to prevent this. Fortunately, there's a way.

Remember that we must keep track of when  widgets become orphaned and when they 
cease to be orphaned -- when they are appended to a parent. We can leverage the 
"adoption"  detection to  fix the edge-case described  above: when  a widget is 
appended to a parent (and, by implication, to a widget hierarchy), we can check 
whether the hierarchy  root is marked for deletion and if  so, unmark it. Easy.

The functions that  actually handle all of  this, then, are  all members of the 
DovahKitScriptVMCore singleton and are:


 - find_abandoned_widgets_and_groups

   Given a widget, this function gathers all widgets and all QButtonGroups that 
   belong to the same  hierarchy or to any  linked hierarchy.  However, it will 
   stop early and produce no output if the hierarchy isn't abandoned.


 - widget_no_longer_referenced

   Called by the QWidget  userdata __gc metamethod, to  indicate that a QWidget 
   is no  longer Lua-referenced.  Uses  (find_abandoned_widgets_and_groups)  to 
   check whether the widget's hierarchy is  abandoned and if so, marks the root 
   widget for deletion.


 - widget_no_longer_orphaned

   Called by any Lua APIs that append a  widget to a parent. Removes the widget 
   from the VM's orphan list, and  then checks whether the root of the widget's 
   containing hierarchy is marked for deletion; if so, the root is unmarked for 
   deletion and inserted back into the orphan list.


Hopefully, this is more intuitive for you,  the reader, than it was for me when 
I was actually debugging the edge-case I walked you through above.

