
UI scripting relies on  two message queues: one for  "read" operations, and one 
for "write" operations. Read operations  always block the calling script, since 
the script needs to  actually receive the values it asked  for before execution 
can resume;  but write operations can be non-blocking. If, however,  the script 
attempts a read operation  while any  write operations  are pending, the script 
will then be blocked until all write operations  and the read operation finish.

But that just applies to when scripts access data on their own prerogative, and 
there's another  layer to everything: UI events. Scripts must be  able to react 
to events like button  presses and form control state changes.  How do we allow 
for that when the script is running on a separate thread from the UI?

We're quite lucky that QObject::connect  is thread-safe; that allows the script 
VM internals to attach event listeners to widgets from the script thread. We do 
still end  up actually having those listeners fire on the main thread,  so what 
we do is send a main-to-script-thread task to forward the event into Lua. Since 
Lua executes  asynchronously from the  main thread, however,  how do we prevent 
the script itself from being vulnerable to race conditions?

Consider the case of a scripted dialog box where a button triggers some complex 
and lengthy operation. Clicking the button should disable it, perform the task, 
and then enable  the button again. However, if we don't  implement engine-level 
safeguards, then it can be possible for a user to mash the button and send more 
than one press through before the script is able to disable the button.

We're quite lucky  that Qt gives us a way to deal with this:  we can use "event 
filters"  to intercept all UI events  that hit a given QObject. The VM  core is 
already a QObject, so we can  register it as the  event filter for all scripted 
widgets and windows. If we keep track of how many UI events are pending -- that 
is, how many  events were sent from the  main thread to the script  thread, but 
haven't finished  executing all of their Lua handlers -- then we  can block all 
events and consequently all  user interaction with  the scripted UI whenever an 
event is still being responded to. A nice bonus to doing things this way is, we 
can avoid  any visual changes  to the scripted  UI when we're locking  it down, 
whereas if we just did  (window:setEnabled(false)),  the windows would grey out
seemingly at random.

There's one more layer that goes into this, though.

Consider a basic script that counts all of the persistent ObjectReference forms 
in the loaded content: the instant it's run, it creates a dialog box containing 
a progress bar, and it animates the progress bar as it runs. Because the script 
runs off the main thread, it's not capable of hanging or lagging the editor; it 
can run at full tilt  and blindly write to the progress bar,  without having to 
worry about editor stability. (This is in opposition to things like JavaScript, 
where scripts have to use setTimeout  and other mechanisms to "take breaks" and 
avoid hanging a web page.)

The problem, however,  is that if we trigger a lengthy  operation from within a 
UI event listener, we'll end up locking  the entire UI for the duration of that 
operation. The solution is to give Lua a means to defer the execution of one of 
its functions until after all listeners  have finished firing. We offer this in 
the form of the (dovah.queue_deferred_function) API. The typical pattern, then, 
would be something like this:

   function some_long_operation()
      --
      -- ...
      --
      button.enabled = true
   end

   button:on("OnActivated", "", function()
      button.enabled = false
      dovah.queue_deferred_function(some_long_operation)
   end)
    
So we disable the button  immediately (and we can do  anything else that has to 
be done  instantly), and defer the lengthy operation until after our  listener. 
That way, the  scripted UI doesn't  wait on the  lengthy operation  itself: the 
button disables properly, but the window itself (and any other controls that we 
want to be usable) remains interactable.
