
DovahKit can  be divided into the  "backend" and the  "frontend." The "backend" 
constitutes everything in the "dovah" folder; these internals manage form data, 
loading, saving, and similar. The  "frontend" constitutes just about everything 
else: all of the UI code, as well as the "DovahKitCore" class which bridges the 
UI to the backend.

---

To understand  DovahKit's  operation, it is worthwhile  to compare  it to other 
programs.  The  official Creation  Kit and  the community-made  xEdit (commonly 
known as TES5Edit or SSEEdit; it is  a multi-game editor, and the game it edits 
is controlled by renaming the executable) are useful points of comparison.

The Creation Kit is a modified build  of Skyrim itself. A significant amount of 
the game's  own code is  used to load forms and  to manage them  in memory; the 
Creation Kit is even subject to the game's reference handle limit. The Creation 
Kit loads all forms'  data, in full, on startup,  and like the game, it retains 
only the "winning" override or record  for each form. All editing functionality 
works in  terms of  the data itself -- a  statement  whose meaning  will become 
clear shortly.

xEdit, by contrast, does not load the full data for every form. Rather, it only 
indexes forms: it  keeps track of what  forms exist, what  files they exist in, 
and the offsets of their data within those files; and it may keep track of some 
pieces of data that are  useful to display in the UI  at all times, like editor 
IDs; but it  otherwise does not load  and retain form data  on startup. Rather, 
xEdit loads data on demand and unloads it when it is no longer in use. Further-
more, xEdit's editing functionality works in terms of the file format. A quest, 
for example, is seen by the program  not as a thing-in-itself, but rather as an 
assemblage  of  subrecords  which may  contain structs,  arrays, and  fields of 
varying types; the game's file  format is not  simply a representation of data, 
but rather, as far as xEdit is concerned, it is the data itself.

This makes xEdit easy to maintain: the  program's code only needs to be able to 
work with the individual building blocks in the file format, and each form type 
can be described just once, in terms of those building blocks; saving, loading, 
and editing each form type then follows  from saving, loading, and editing each 
building block. This is  in contrast to the Creation  Kit, where each form must 
have its own code for loading,  its own code for saving,  and, presumably,  its 
own code for generating and maintaining use info.

A class definition is a description of a piece of data and its layout; the code 
to serialize that class definition is  in practice another description, another 
list of fields; serialization code  is just a restatement. Looking through that 
lens, xEdit's developers  only have to "describe" each  form type once, whereas 
Bethesda's developers  must "describe" each form type five  times: once for the 
class definition; twice more for the loading and saving code; once more for the 
code to build use info; and once again  for the code to prune use info as forms 
are deleted. xEdit's design avoids  redundancy and, consequently, opportunities 
to make a mistake;  xEdit's developers  don't have to keep  nearly half a dozen 
descriptions of each form type in synch with one another.

Maintainability  does come with  its own costs.  Because xEdit  is only able to 
think in  terms of the file format, it  is only able to  offer editing tools in 
terms of the file format. This is one  reason for its spartan spreadsheet-based 
user interface,  which is well-suited to  precise data editing but,  perhaps, a
bit daunting to newcomers.  However, the scripting  API is where the effects of 
this design become  particularly visible:  you can't write  scripts in terms of 
the data, but  rather only  in terms of the file  format; if, for  example, you 
want to write a script  that scans over all of the Infos  in a Topic, in order, 
there is no  built-in functionality  for this; rather, you must  manually write 
the code to pull  the INFO/PNAM subrecord and treat  it as the link in a linked 
list. It's certainly possible for xEdit's  developers to write code to abstract 
away details  like this,  but all such  code is essentially  an exception being 
made to its core design -- another thing  to have to maintain; another place to 
make mistakes. But these limitations  aren't flaws. xEdit's design works; it is 
one of the most  important editing tools available to the  community, and it is 
so for a reason. The scripting API,  cumbersome  as it is to work with whenever 
one tries to  do anything complex, is more  than adequate for its  intended use 
case: simple batch edits to raw data.

DovahKit, then, takes  something of a hybrid approach.  Like xEdit, it does not 
fully load forms but rather indexes them for loading on demand. Like Bethesda's 
Creation Kit, however,  DovahKit does not "think" in  terms of the file format, 
where forms are  assemblages of individual building blocks,  but rather retains 
forms as things-in-themselves in memory. This means that DovahKit misses out on 
xEdit's maintainability; redundantly describing each form five times means that 
there are five times as many opportunities  to screw up, for each of the game's 
one hundred and thirty or so form types. However, DovahKit can potentially give 
more assistance to the user: a scripting API can be interpreted in terms of the 
game's data rather  than that data's underlying representation;  editing tools, 
as well, can (and indeed,  must) allow the user to interact  with the data as a 
thing-in-itself  rather than as  an assemblage  of smaller building  blocks. In 
practice, there is also a  significant advantage in  speed. DovahKit is able to 
load form  content marginally  faster than xEdit,  and it is  able to build use 
info significantly  faster as of December  2019 (on the order of a  full minute 
saved, when xEdit doesn't have cached  data to rely upon). I can only speculate 
as to why  that's the  case. My presumption is that  the speed  advantage comes 
from DovahKit being less "thoughtful."  xEdit relies on one description of each 
form type, which  it must pore over  and consider and interpret:  xEdit thinks; 
DovahKit, by contrast,  acts on blind instinct: I did  its thinking in advance.

I also use multithreading. Use info,  however, is built with eight threads, and 
DovahKit generates it in one second compared  to xEdit's sixty-six seconds. The 
longest thread of the eight must take one second, which means that for a single-
threaded approach,  eight seconds would be our worst-case time.  Multithreading 
alone doesn't seem like it could explain the discrepancy.

Ultimately, xEdit takes a more careful and considered approach, and one that is 
more maintainable. It is by no means  a laggy program; once all data is loaded, 
it runs very fast, and once it has cached use info, it can load that cache very 
fast. The trade-offs  that xEdit makes  are worthwhile to the  vast majority of 
users, and  they help to  ensure a more  reliable  program. DovahKit  should be 
viewed, by contrast,  as experimental  and more fragile.  Both programs are, of 
course, more  efficient under  the hood than  the Creation Kit;  neither has to 
load every single form into memory, in  full, on startup; neither is encumbered 
by backend systems that were developed for a game and that hinder a large-scale 
editor, such as the reference handle system.

(That said, Bethesda's job isn't to  make an editor. It's to make a game. Using 
the game engine itself as the basis of  the editor is clever, and it also means 
that "describing" each form type multiple times isn't redundant for them, since 
they already have to do much of that work just for the game itself. There is no 
trade-off that anyone in the community could ever make, that would be as useful 
to us as Bethesda's Creation Kit tradeoffs were to them.)

To summarize the design approaches:

   a) The Creation Kit:
       - Loads all data in full
       - Repurposed game engine
       - Data-focused

   b) xEdit
       - Loads data on demand
       - Built from scratch
       - File-focused
       
   c) DovahKit
       - Loads data on demand
       - Built from scratch
       - Data-focused

And to summarize the results of the approaches taken:

   a) The Creation Kit:
       - Slow
       - Opportunistic
       - Accessible

   b) xEdit
       - Fast
       - Maintainable
       - Comprehensive

   c) DovahKit
       - Lightning fast
       - Accessible

---

DovahKit doesn't load the full content of ES[LPM] files. Instead, it scans over 
a file and creates "form stubs."  A form stub is a simplified representation of 
a form,  containing its form ID, editor ID,  file of origin, and the  offset of 
the form's  record within that file  (along with some other basic information). 
When the full content of a form is needed, the file of origin can be  accessed; 
we  can seek to the record offset and  load the full form  data on demand. This 
approach allows us to keep memory usage low.

Form stubs also track use info bidirectionally.

DovahKit offers a  set of loaded-form  classes which can be  instantiated via a 
form stub. The stub will return a smart pointer that relies on a stub-side ref-
count to delete the loaded form from memory when it is no longer in use.

Form  stubs  are stored  in a (file_load_order)  class, which is  also used  to 
coordinate reading  files in the first  place in order to  build the form stubs 
and generate their use info. Clients,  then, must construct a (file_load_order) 
and ask it to load the desired files.

---

Internally, loaded form classes must be capable of six things:

 - Storing a form's full loaded data, obviously.

 - Generating use info  for a form type, given a record  (see documentation for 
   reading files). This must be done via a static member function, i.e. not for 
   an instance.

 - Loading a form's data, given a record.

 - Saving a form's data back into a file.

 - Copying a form's data, for the sake of duplicating forms.

 - Reacting to the  imminent deletion of a form that they  have a reference to.
