
Here's an interesting question:

ObjectReference (TESObjectREFR internally) is  the form type that the game uses 
for all objects placed in the game world. If it is a "thing" that "exists" at a 
point in space, then it's an ObjectReference. Treasure chests, mountain ridges, 
dropped items,  characters, furniture, trigger volumes, fired  projectiles, and 
more... They're all just ObjectReferences with different base forms. Characters 
and projectiles use subclasses, but nothing else does.

This, of course, means that TESObjectREFR needs to be able to handle all of the 
data and behaviors  needed by all of these very different  types. And just what 
data and behaviors are we  talking about? Well, here's  a "brief" partial list:


   ALPHA CUTOFF
      Specific scenery objects can use  this to adjust the threshold value used 
      for one-bit alpha transparency. The Creation Kit helpfully lists tattered 
      banners as an example.


   CHARGE
      Enchanted weapons have a limited supply of energy.


   CONTAINER CHANGES
      Inventories consist of two parts: the data on the base form and "changes" 
      stored on the ObjectReference.


   COUNT
      A single ObjectReference  in the game world can  represent multiple of an 
      item; for example, if the player drops  fifteen arrows at once, they will 
      appear as a single ObjectReference, displayed with a quiver model.


   DISMEMBERED LIMBS
      Actors could have any  limb severed in the Fallout games,  and in Skyrim, 
      they can be decapitated. This data is also used to track whether an actor 
      has been cannibalized by another actor,  to prevent cannibal players from 
      feeding on the same corpse repeatedly.


   EMITTANCE SOURCE
      Lights and some special-effects objects  (like smoke and dust) can be set 
      to inherit their color from the time of day.


   ENABLE STATE PARENT
      Any ObjectReference can be configured  to have its enable state depend on 
      the enable state of some other  ObjectReference (the "parent"). This is a 
      feature that  is used relatively rarely, but it is vitally  important for 
      things like environmental changes (like the Dark Brotherhood Sanctuary in 
      Falkreath being destroyed) and so must be available on all objects.


   LINKED REFERENCES
      ObjectReferences can be "linked" to each other for a variety of purposes. 
      Some hardcoded systems, like packages, are able to work with these links, 
      and they are  also accessible in  conditions and scripts.  As with enable 
      state parents, this needs  to be available on  all ObjectReferences,  but 
      will be used by comparatively few of them.


   LOCATION REF TYPE
      Flags the ObjectReference as belonging  to some arbitrary classification, 
      such as  "boss enemy"  or "boss enemy's treasure chest."  Useful  for the 
      alias and story manager systems.


   LOCK
      Containers and doors can be locked.  Locks can have a fixed difficulty or 
      be "leveled," and they can optionally be  tied to a key which opens them.


   OWNERSHIP
      Furniture,  items,  and some other objects can be owned by characters and 
      factions.


   POISON
      If a weapon has a poison applied to  it and is then dropped, it will keep 
      that poison.


   PRIMITIVE
      Portals, roombounds, and trigger volumes  all use abstract shapes instead 
      of 3D models.


   RADIUS
      Some kinds of markers use this; it is also used by light emitters.


   SOUL
      Soul gems contain souls of various sizes.


   TELEPORT
      Load doors are,  functionally,  teleporters. Each door  needs to know the 
      other door  that it connects to, and  needs coordinates (relative  to the 
      destination door) to place an actor at.


That's a lot! If every ObjectReference needed to have room for every one of the 
above fields at all times, then the game would waste a huge amount of memory. A 
typical ObjectReference won't use any of  the above behaviors, and it'd be rare 
for an ObjectReference to use more than a few, so couldn't Bethesda optimize it 
somehow? Well, they could and they did.

In-game, every TESObjectREFR has a list of "extra-data," or single-purpose data 
structures suited for the above tasks. Each extra-data type has a unique ID, so 
the game can easily look up the extra-data  relevant to a given situation. This 
means that any  ObjectReference can theoretically be given  inventory data, for 
example, but in practice they'll only have  that data (which is to say: they'll 
only have memory set aside to hold that data) when they actually need it.

Incidentally,  cells (TESObjectCELL) also have extra-data lists  for properties 
like the cell's music type override, climate, region list, and water type.
