
If you've read the documentation on how the game loads forms, then you now know 
that GMST records don't actually define  forms. Game settings are not forms and 
do not have form IDs,  which means  that as long as their special-case  loading 
code is  reached, they will load regardles s of their form ID. This  means that 
game settings disobey the usual rules for form IDs in the following manner:

 - Multiple GMSTs can share the same form ID.

 - GMSTs can share their form IDs with real forms,  so long as those forms load 
   later than the GMSTs.

 - GMSTs can have form  IDs that are out of bounds or  otherwise invalid, as is 
   seen with a particular GMST record in Skyrim.esm.

 - If a file  contains multiple  GMST records with  different form  IDs but the 
   same editor ID, then one will override the other.

Only one such anomalous GMST record is known to exist in official content,  and 
official editing tools have never been  observed to break these rules after the 
game's initial release.  The information above comes  from disassembling Skyrim 
Classic. Additional  information comes from disassembling the  game and running 
tests in the Creation Kit:

 - A GMST record will only be recognized if EDID is the first subrecord inside.

 - Nameless GMSTs are  not retained when  resaving a file in  the Creation Kit, 
   and presumably, they aren't retained in memory at all.

 - Unrecognized GMSTs are  retained when  resaving a file  in the Creation Kit, 
   and they can even  be seen in the Creation Kit's UI. They do  show a warning 
   message when loaded.

 - Unrecognized GMST names with invalid type prefixes are also loaded, but they 
   cause the Creation Kit's game setting  editor window to malfunction. Warning 
   dialogs display  when selecting them,  with text obviously  intended for the 
   Creation Kit's developers,  and form controls' values  and enable states are 
   not updated.
   
 - When multiple  instances of the same  game setting are loaded  (whether from 
   different files or the same file), the Creation Kit retains the last form ID 
   that it saw for that setting.

All of the above findings,  then, establish that game  settings must be handled 
very  differently from forms just to approximate (let alone exactly  mimic) how 
the game engine handles  them. This creates the need to  actually decide how to 
handle game settings, and to what extent we should support, retain, and re-save 
anomalous GMST records.

The vast majority of GMST anomalies are  quirks arising from the fact that the 
file format is not, in this case, suited to the data it is being used to store: 
GMSTs are not forms, yet are being encoded  in a format that requires form IDs, 
instead of some special-case format.  This means that the vast majority of GMST 
anomalies are file format details rather than aspects of the data that is being 
represented. Referring back to <basics.txt>, we see that like the Creation Kit, 
DovahKit aims to focus on the data  being represented rather than on the file's 
representation of that data, this being a contrast to tools like xEdit. It just 
wouldn't make sense to design the vast majority of DovahKit to be data-oriented 
only to then make this one thing file-oriented. Accordingly, GMST anomalies are 
to be handled as follows:

 - GMSTs with blank,  missing,  or misplaced editor IDs  will not be  loaded or 
   retained. Neither the game nor the Creation Kit load or retain them.

    = There is  no practical use for  retaining nameless GMSTs.  In theory they 
      could be used  to "reserve" form IDs somehow, but in practice  that would 
      only affect xEdit. A dummy form would be a better, and interoperable, way 
      to occupy a form ID.

 - GMSTs with unrecognized names will be retained and re-saved, consistent with 
   the Creation Kit, to ensure forward compatibility in the event that Bethesda 
   adds new settings to Skyrim Special  Edition. However, settings with unknown 
   type prefixes will not have their values loaded or re-saved.

    - If we ever wanted to change this  decision, then we would have to make it 
      possible for every loaded game setting to store a vector of bytes.

 - If a GMST in the  active file has a given form ID, then it  will be re-saved 
   with the same form ID.
 
 - GMSTs will be permitted to share form  IDs with other GMSTs, both when first 
   loaded and if  edited to do so. The frontend will not have  GMSTs share form 
   IDs normally, but will not stop the  user from manually renumbering GMSTs to 
   share form IDs.

    = Form ID sharing  is practical for reducing form ID  usage by GMSTs, which 
      would be  particularly  useful when  working with  an ESL file.  However, 
      xEdit doesn't support it as of this writing,  so the frontend won't do it 
      by default.

 - GMSTs will not be permitted to share form IDs with actual forms.

 - GMSTs with out-of-bounds  or otherwise invalid form IDs  will load, but will 
   use form ID 0 in memory.

    - Changing this would require making  it possible for a loaded game setting 
      to know whether its form ID was resolved or is file local instead.

 - Redundant GMSTs  in the active file (i.e. multiple GMST records  that define 
   values for the same setting, but with different form IDs) won't be retained. 
   Only the last loaded GMST will be used for the setting (the same behavior as 
   the Creation Kit).

    - Non-active files need to be an exception, so that users can't assign form 
      IDs used by redundant GMSTs to an injected record.

The above decisions push us to the following details:

 - We cannot use form stubs as the primary means of encoding a GMST, because we 
   can only have  one form stub per form ID,  and because every form  stub must 
   have a valid and resolved form ID. By contrast, multiple GMSTs can share the 
   same form ID, and GMSTs do not need to have a valid form ID.

   At the same time, it is easiest to  enforce most of the editor's constraints 
   regarding form  IDs if we create dummy form stubs for all  form IDs that are 
   used by one or more GMST. These constraints include detecting form overrides 
   that have mismatched form types, and preventing forms from sharing their IDs 
   with game settings.

 - Game settings, then, need to be  stored in a separate list, indexed by name. 
   Entries in this list must know their  resolved form IDs, so that we can tell 
   which settings are represented by which form stubs.

 - It is difficult to support editing and  renumbering GMSTs if we also support 
   redundant GMSTs  in full.  When loading and retaining  non-active files,  we 
   need to be able to  know when redundant  GMSTs exist and what  form IDs they 
   use, but we don't need that information for the active file. Accordingly, we 
   can simplify GMST editing by refusing to retain redundant GMSTs when loading 
   the active file in specific.

   That is to say: for each game setting, we retain one loaded_game_setting and 
   one form_stub per definition found in  a non-active file, as well as at most 
   one instance of each struct for any definition in the active file.

 - Game settings aren't complex enough to warrant loading them on demand, so we 
   will instead load them during the initial parsing of all ES[LPM] files.

 - String GMSTs encode their values as localizable strings. Those normally only 
   appear inside  of form data  that is loaded  on-demand, and so are  normally 
   only accessed after all localization files have been loaded. DovahKit's load 
   process must therefore take an extra step after localization files have been 
   loaded: it must loop  over all loaded GMSTs and pull  the appropriate string 
   content for GMSTs that rely on the localization files.

 - Changing a GMST's value, and renumbering  a GMST, both require that we check 
   how many other GMSTs  use the same form ID. Both operations  can lead to the 
   GMST's form  ID changing, and  if it does, then we  need to know  whether to 
   renumber the  matching form stub (if  it's only used by the  one setting) or 
   create an additional form stub (otherwise).
