
In Skyrim, each piece of game data is a "form" with a unique numeric "form ID." 
Forms are encoded into a file as "records" and "subrecords." If a file includes 
a record with the same  form ID as a record in one of  the file's dependencies, 
then this new record  "overrides" the old one.  This gives rise to the "Rule of 
One," a principle  which describes how  data conflicts are  handled by the game 
engine.

Here's a  basic example of  the Rule of  One. Say you  want to make  a mod that 
changes the name of the item "Apple" to "Red Apple." You go to the Creation Kit 
and you make that change.  What actually gets encoded  into your file is a full 
copy of the original record,  but with a changed name:  you can't simply change 
the name of an item, but rather must replace all of the item's data with a near-
exact duplicate,  identical save for the  name. What happens,  then, if another 
mod wants to change the  price of an apple?  Well, that mod, too,  will embed a 
near-exact duplicate  of the original  apple definition. These  two mods, then, 
will conflict: each one is trying to wholly replace the entire definition of an 
apple, and only one of them can "win."  In practice, the mod that loads last is 
the mod that will win.

Sounds pretty  straightforward, then, right?  Because of  the Rule of One, only 
one definition of a form can be loaded,  which means a form can be edited by at 
most one file  before conflicts  occur. Except it  isn't nearly  so simple. The 
real process is as follows:

Upon encountering a record, the game checks  to see if a form is already loaded 
into memory with that  record's form ID (which would be  the case if the record 
were an override). If so, then the game does  a quick sanity check to make sure 
that the existing form and the new record  are of the same type. If they aren't 
(e.g. a WEAP  overriding a  VTYP), then the form  fails to load.  (There is one 
exception: ARMO and ARMA are allowed to override each other. [1])

If the form is already  loaded, then the  game checks if  it's a "parent" form, 
i.e. if it is allowed to "contain" other forms (as in the case of: CELLs, which 
contain REFRs; WRLDs, which contain CELLs;  or DIALs, which contain INFOs; note 
that QUSTs don't actually contain DIALs). The game then checks if the record is 
"partial." Cell and worldspace records are "partial" if they have the "partial" 
flag, while overrides  of all other parent  forms are always  "partial." If the 
record is "partial," then the game does a special "partial" load and then stops 
all further processing: the record is at this point fully loaded.

(The purpose of "partial" loads is to  serve as a source control mechanism. One 
author can modify, say, a REFR,  without including a "false" edit of the parent 
CELL that might conflict with another author's changes to that CELL; child form 
edits don't cause  Rule of One conflicts with the parent form  when the flag is 
used.)

If the form does  *not* already exist  in memory (i.e. if  this record isn't an 
override), then the game  checks if the record is  flagged as "partial." If so, 
then the game's response differs depending on what file the form is expected to 
originate from based on its form ID (in Skyrim Classic, this is done via a test 
of the form ID's load prefix).  If the form should originate from the file that 
the game is  currently loading, then the "partial" flag is  simply stripped off 
and ignored; otherwise, the record is skipped.

Next up: if the form exists in memory (i.e. this record is an override), and if 
the record is  not flagged as "deleted,"  then some special  steps are taken if 
the form is a quest or object-reference. Regardless of the form's type, it will 
then be asked to clear all of its data.  This is the origin of the Rule of One: 
it is not the result of the game only using the last-loaded record for any form 
ID, but rather a deliberate design decision  on Bethesda's part, and crucially, 
it is a design  decision to which they can make exceptions:  any data that they 
don't go out of their  way to clear will, in effect,  be coalesced across every 
file that defines a given form.

That's an important point,  so let me restate it:  data will be exempt from the 
Rule of One in every  case where Bethesda does not consciously  apply the rule. 
Known examples  include various Location (LCTN) subrecords  that serve as lists 
of ObjectReferences in a given Location.

(It should also be noted that after an  already-existing form is asked to clear 
its data,  it will then be  asked to "initialize" its  data. It seems  that the 
"clear" function destroys pointed-to objects owned by the form, while the other 
"initialize" function sets all of the form's members to their defaults, zeroing 
pointers to owned resources redundantly.)

If, on the other hand, the form does not already exist in memory, the game will 
create a new  form in-memory as  appropriate. "As appropriate"  is an important 
qualifier, because there are several  special cases that are handled here, such 
as the loading of GMST records and  the loading of the TES4/ONAM subrecord. [2]

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In practice, in order to know whether a given piece of data in a form type does 
or does not obey  the Rule of One, a reverse-engineer must  check at least four 
places:

   void TESForm::ClearAllComponentData();                // Classic: 0x00450D00
   virtual void TESForm::ClearData();                    // virtual method 0x05
   virtual void TESForm::InitializeData();               // virtual method 0x04
   virtual bool TESForm::LoadForm(TESFile*);             // virtual method 0x06

For parent forms, a reverse-engineer must also check one more location in code: 

   virtual bool TESForm::LoadPartial(TESFile*);          // virtual method 0x07

Some forms may load some of their data normally, but load more at run-time. For 
example, INFO only loads response data  on-demand during play, and so the TRDT, 
LNAM, NAM1,  and SNAM subrecords are  not retrieved by  (TESForm::LoadForm) but 
rather by  (TESTopicInfo::LoadResponseDataAtRunTime)  at 0x0057D7D0.  Functions 
like these must obtain  a pointer to the  last file that  supplied a record for 
the form in  question; in Skyrim Classic, they do so by calling  the subroutine 
at 0x004515B0, which I call (TESForm::GetSourceFile).

The internal form class, TESForm, uses  multiple inheritance in order to supply 
properties like  a full name (TESFullName)  or a description  (TESDescription). 
SKSE class definitions list these parent  classes as members in order to ensure 
consistent struct layouts  with the game, though the fields  are usually marked 
with a comment indicating  that they're actually parents,  not members. You can 
safely assume  that these fields  will have their  data cleared  when a form is 
overridden (presuming the override lacks  the "deleted" flag). Clearing them is 
the purpose of TESForm::ClearAllComponentData. [3]

Papyrus data is also cleared off of overridden forms (again, presuming that the 
override lacks the "deleted" flag).  The form loader communicates directly with 
the Papyrus VM; the form itself isn't responsible for clearing Papyrus state in 
this situation.

The function that  coordinates all of the above is,  in Skyrim Classic, located 
at offset 0x004401B0.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] This is likely a leftover behavior  from Fallout 3, where one of these form 
types was just a more advanced version of the other. ElminsterAU has speculated 
that this may specifically be a GECK leftover intended to help Bethesda convert 
forms from one type  to the other. Recall  that the Creation  Kit is a modified 
build of the  game itself (and that  each game is based on the  previous game's 
engine); when quirks  like this exist in the editor, one  can reasonably expect
them to also appear  in the game, and vice versa.  ARMO and ARMA have obviously 
diverged  significantly from  each other since  Fallout 3, and the  data is not 
likely to still be compatible.


[2] The following  records are known to  be handled as  special cases in Skyrim 
Classic: CELL; CPTH; DIAL; DOBJ; GMST;  IDLE; INFO; LAND; NAVI; NAVM; REFR (and 
all subclasses); TES4; WRLD. Special-case behaviors are as follows:


   AVIF (actor value info)
      If the  form already exists, then data is loaded. New  forms of this type 
      are never created.


   CELL (cell)
      The cell is loaded as normal. If  the cell  is an exterior  and is not an 
      override, then additional processing will connect it to its worldspace as 
      appropriate:

       - If it is the first persistent-flagged cell to load in that worldspace, 
         then it will be set as the worldspace's persistent cell.

       - If it isn't set as the worldspace's persistent cell, and if the world-
         space already  has a cell in  the same grid coordinates,  then the new 
         cell form will be  deleted. The record will be  loaded by the existing 
         cell, effectively overriding that cell instead.

       - Otherwise, the new cell is inserted into the worldspace as expected.

      A pointer to the appropriate cell is  retained, and used to keep track of 
      what cell any child records should be associated with.


   CPTH (camera path), QUST (idle)
      Instances of the  forms are created in  memory, and the  appropriate form 
      loader  (TESForm::LoadForm override)  is called. Behavior is in  practice 
      the same as pretty much all other forms.


   DIAL (dialogue topic)
      The form is loaded as normal, and then additional functions are called on 
      the file object,  with the loaded form  passed as an argument.


   DOBJ (default object list)
      The game stores default-object list  in a singleton that is a subclass of 
      TESForm. The game  calls the appropriate  form loader  (TESForm::LoadForm 
      override) on the singleton.


   DLVW (dialogue view)
      The game aborts here and therefore never loads these.


   GMST (game setting)
      The game checks for an  EDID subrecord and immediately  skips the rest of 
      the record if one is not found.  Otherwise, the editor ID and the rest of 
      the record  body is passed  to the  GameSettingCollection  singleton. The 
      game doesn't appear to create an  in-memory form for game settings, which 
      means that GMSTs always run the special-case load behavior.

      In short, a GMST can have  any form ID so long as  it does not override a 
      non-GMST form; GMSTs with invalid form IDs will still load, as will GMSTs 
      within the same file that share the  same form ID. As of October 2020, no 
      tools are known to exploit this, and xEdit is known not to support it. We 
      could exploit  this engine quirk to  conserve form IDs within  ESL files, 
      but default behaviors  that conflict with other tools  would be unwise if 
      not outright discourteous.


   INFO (dialogue topic info)
      The form  is loaded as normal.  A pointer to it is retained for  use when 
      opening TOFT records [4].


   LAND (heightmapped landscape)
      An instance is created,  and some tasks are performed  using the instance 
      and its parent  cell. Then,  the game calls the  appropriate  form loader 
      (TESForm::LoadForm  override) for the  landscape.


   NAVI (navmesh info map)
      The game will only ever create a single NavMeshInfoMap instance, retained 
      within the TES singleton; if an  instance already exists, then it will be 
      reused. The appropriate form loader  (TESForm::LoadForm override) will be 
      called.


   NAVM (navmesh)
      Instances of the  forms are created in  memory, and the  appropriate form 
      loader  (TESForm::LoadForm override)  is called. After that,  the  parent 
      cell  is retrieved,  and special functionality  is used  to integrate the 
      navmesh into the cell.


   REFR and subclasses (object-reference)
      A reference is created and given a reference handle. The appropriate form 
      loader (TESForm::LoadForm override) is called, and then the game makes up 
      to two consecutive attempts to give  the reference a new handle. The game 
      then performs various bookkeeping tasks,  including: checking whether the 
      reference's parent cell is persistent  and if so, setting its "persistent 
      cell" extra-data; checking  whether the reference is  an Actor and if so, 
      forcibly  removing its  reference  handle from  in-memory AI  lists (most 
      likely to ensure that it doesn't get  stuck in the low- or middle-process 
      lists); and flagging the reference  as persistent at run-time if the file 
      that provides it is not a master.


   TES4 (file header)
      The game loads and processes the ONAM subrecord, if present.


   WRLD (worldspace)
      The game loads the form as normal, with the sole exception that it stores 
      a pointer to the  newly-loaded worldspace  whether or not  the worldspace 
      loader returns true. The pointer is used to keep track of what worldspace 
      any child records should be associated with; the CELL behavior above, for 
      example, uses this  worldspace pointer to identify  the cell's containing 
      worldspace.


[3] TESForm::ClearAllComponentData  works as follows.  First, it creates a list 
of thirty-eight null pointers -- one for every one of the game's form component 
classes. Then, it  calls a function which  dynamic-casts the  form to each such 
component class, storing the resulting pointers. Once the list is filled, it is 
looped over; for each non-null pointer, virtual member function 0x02 is called; 
this, of course, is a member function  which clears data on the individual form 
component. Each of  these three steps -- creating the list  and filling it with 
null; storing dynamic-casted pointers into  the list; and looping over it -- is 
performed by separate non-member functions which TESForm::ClearAllComponentData 
calls. These are the penultimate  three calls made;  the last call, after them, 
is a no-op, presumably the destructor for  the component pointer list. As such, 
in order to determine  whether a form  type's components  are cleared, one must 
check the second of the last four  function calls made in ClearAllComponentData 
to see if that component is the subject of a dynamic cast; if so, one must then 
check the component class's virtual member function 0x02.


[4] Records with the signature TOFT are exempt from the process described above 
and in fact do not  define forms at all.  There is a form  type value for TOFT, 
but it does not correspond  to any TESForm subclass  (which is somewhat normal; 
form type constants also exist for file structure elements like the file header 
and GRUPs).

In a TOFT record, the space normally used for a form ID is instead used to hold 
a file offset. If the offset in question  is not equal to -1 (0xFFFFFFFF) or -2 
(0xFFFFFFFE), then  it will be supplied  to the last-loaded  topic info (INFO), 
worldspace (WRLD), or interior cell (CELL with appropriate flag) that came from 
the current GRUP.  The exact significance  of this file offset  is unknown, and 
TOFT records have never been seen in the wild in any Bethesda RPG.