
Worldspaces in  Skyrim will commonly have  a "persistent cell."  The persistent 
cell is not a "real" cell; it does not  represent any physical space within the 
worldspace. Rather, it is used to hold all persistent ObjectReferences that are 
placed in any  of the worldspace's exterior  cells. The persistent  cell, then, 
can be thought of as something that overlaps the entire worldspace and its more 
ordinary cells.

Persistent cells introduce some complications.

 - A file can  place new  persistent references  inside of one  of its masters' 
   exterior cells.  Conceptually, the file is modifying the cell,  but the file 
   does not actually override the cell  record, and so is not one of the cell's 
   source files.

 - A persistent  reference's parent record is the persistent cell,  and not the 
   reference's "true" parent form. If we actually represent the forms in memory 
   this way, then persistent references  become cumbersome to work with: when a 
   frontend wishes to load a new exterior  cell, it must loop over every single 
   persistent reference in the containing world in order to identify persistent 
   references existing in the cell to be loaded.

Accordingly, after the file_load_order has created all form stubs and built use 
info, we reparent every reference existing  inside of a worldspace's persistent 
cell. But... how do we do that?

Well, first of all, we have to wait until  use info has been built and made bi-
directional. As forms are loaded,  one-way "uses" are created pointing from the 
form to its parent;  it is not until  these are made  bidirectional that we can 
find all of the cells in a worldspace, or  all of the references in a cell. The 
naive approach,  then, would be to use  (form_stub::set_parent_form)  on all of 
the references within  a persistent cell after bidirectional  use info has been 
built.

The naive approach adds seven entire seconds to the load time for Skyrim.esm.

On Release.

So clearly that's  not acceptable. So let's take a closer  look at what setting 
the parent form actually entails. There  are four basic operations that need to 
be performed.

   1. Sever any outbound connection from the child to the prior parent form.

   2. Sever any inbound connection from the child to the prior parent form.

   3. Create an outbound connection from the child to the new parent form.

   4. Create an inbound connection from the child to the new parent form.

As with building use info, step 3 can  be multi-threaded. Moreover, we can also 
multi-thread step 2. That leaves us with steps 1 and 4. Step 1 can be made more 
efficient by  doing it in bulk. Nothing is supposed to refer to  a worldspace's 
persistent cell, although  in practice the cell could be  referred to if a file 
is tampered with somehow; this means that  the overwhelming majority of inbound 
references to a persistent cell will be those we are about to sever. Instead of 
severing them one by one, we can simply copy the few (or no) inbound references 
that aren't part of parent/child relationships, and then use std::swap to throw 
away the rest in one clean act.

Unfortunately, step 4 cannot be made multi-threaded. Given a group of REFRs, we 
cannot be sure that some of these REFRs don't refer to the same target cell. If 
we try to  multi-thread the creation of inbound use info for these  cells, then 
we risk a thread collision and data corruption (or, if we're lucky, a crash). 

Skyrim.esm has 15,196  persistent references  in Tamriel  alone. This is not an 
especially large  number of forms to work with, given that  the game has around 
200,000 references in total; the problem is that reparenting all the references 
forces us to jump back and forth all over the place in memory, and that's slow.
