
The document  <use info build process.txt>  is required reading.  This document 
builds and elaborates on that one, describing  the conventions for handling use 
info within extra-data.  We also assume that you're already  familiar with what 
extra-data actually are.

Form-to-form references outbound from  extra-data can be divided into two basic 
categories: "single" uses and "vector" uses. These are roughly analogous to the 
references that can exist in whole forms.  Consider the following two examples:

   a) The XPSN+XPSC subrecords represent the "poison" extra-data type. This can 
      be applied to a pre-placed weapon in order to pre-poison the weapon, with 
      XPSN specifying a  form to serve as the poison type,  and XPSC specifying 
      the number of doses on the weapon. (Skyrim players won't be familiar with 
      the latter, as in  typical play weapons can only have  one dose of poison 
      applied to them.)

      A weapon can only have one kind of poison applied to it, so if a REFR has 
      multiple XPSN subrecords, only the last will be retained in memory. Thus, 
      XPSN is a "single" use.

   b) The XCLR subrecord represents the  "region list" for a cell, and consists 
      entirely of form IDs for regions. The game does not clear a cell's region 
      list upon encountering  a new XCLR subrecord, so if a  cell should happen 
      to have multiple XCLR subrecords, the contents of the two would simply be 
      concatenated into a single list. Thus, XCLR produces "vector" uses.

The conventions for safely handling use  info (per the considerations described 
in <use info build process.txt>) are as follows:

   a) A struct named (extra_data_use_info_state) has been defined with room for 
      every possible  "single" use in every known extra-data  type. Each extra-
      data type will be given access to both the normal use-info-builder object 
      and to this state object, and will be expected to load "single" uses into 
      the state object rather than committing them to the use-info-builder.

   b) "Array" uses, on the other hand, should be sent directly to the use-info-
      builder.

   c) The containing form's use info generator should create an instance of the 
      state struct, and commit it after the record has been read.

Following these  conventions should  ensure that we generate  use info properly 
even when extra-data subrecords for "single" uses wrongly appear multiple times 
in a single form.
